=head1 NAME

quvi - query media tool

=head1 SYNOPSIS

quvi [options] [url ...] [file ...]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

quvi is a command line tool for parsing flash media stream URLs.
It supports many websites including YouTube and Dailymotion.

=head1 COMMAND LINE PARSER

GNU gengetopt is very flexible.

=head2 Example

  quvi --category http --category rtmp --verbosity debug \
       --export-level +errors --feature -verify --feature -resolve

=head2 Same as above but with short options

  quvi -c http -c rtmp -v debug -l +errors -e -verify -e -resolve

=head2 Or even simply

  quvi -ch -cr -vd -l+ -e-v -e-r

=head1 OPTIONS

quvi reads standard input by default. It can also read the URLs from
files but expects each URL to be separated by a newline character.

=head2 -h, --help

Print help and exit.

=head2 --version

Print program version and exit.

=head2 --license

Print license and exit.

=head2 --support [I<arg>]

Print supported hosts and exit. If I<arg> is present, the program
checks whether the I<arg> is supported.

The default behaviour, without an I<arg>, causes quvi to print the
supported websites. The B<first> string is the domain string which
is, in fact, a (Lua) pattern used to match the URL to a libquvi
script. The B<second> string is, I<now obsolete> (see below), an
array containing the supported formats specific to the host.

Use C<--query-formats> if you need to check an URL for the available
formats.

See also L</EXAMPLES>.

=head2 -e, --feature I<arg>

Enable or disable a feature. See also L</EXAMPLES>. Possible values:

=head3 resolve (default)

Resolve HTTP directions, e.g. shortened URLs. See below.

=head3 -resolve

Do not resolve HTTP redirections. When used, quvi will not be able to
resolve most of the "shortened URLs" produced by different URL shortening
services.

Note that libquvi scripts that explicitly (need to) resolve redirections
will continue to do so even if this switch is used.

=head3 verify (default)

Verify media stream URL after parsing. See below.

=head3 -verify

Do not verify media stream URL after parsing. When used, some
media details, e.g. content length, will not become available.

Note that libquvi skips the verification automatically with all
non-HTTP media stream URLs.

=head3 proxy (default)

Use a HTTP proxy with connections if it is defined using either
the C<--proxy> or the B<http_proxy> value. See below.

=head3 -proxy

Disable use of a HTTP proxy completely. Proxy will not be used even
if it is defined in B<http_proxy>.

=head2 -d, --export-format I<arg> (=json)

Set the interchange format in which the data is to be printed.
Possible values:

 json .. Print in JSON (default)
 xml  .. Print in XML

=head2 -l, --export-level I<arg> (=media)

Set level of the exported interchange data. Possible values:

 media    .. Media only (default)
 +errors  .. Media and error messages

See also C<--export-format>.

=head2 -v, --verbosity I<arg> (=verbose)

Set the verbosity level of the printed messages. Possible values:

 debug   .. Everything, including libcurl generated messages
 verbose .. Most messages (default)
 quiet   .. Errors and warnings only
 mute    .. Nothing at all

=head2 --exec I<arg>

Invoke I<arg> after each successfully parsed URL. The following
specifiers are supported:

 %u  ..  Media stream URL
 %t  ..  Media title

Note that I<each> occurence of the specifier will be replaced within
the I<arg>. quvi accepts multiple occurrences of C<--exec>. See also
L</EXAMPLES>.

=head2 -c, --category I<arg> (=all)

Enable the level of the libquvi script categories. By default, all of the
categories levels are enabled. Possible values:

 http  .. HTTP category scripts only
 rtmp  .. RTMP ...
 rtsp  .. RTSP ...
 mms   .. MMS ...
 all   .. All of the above

quvi accepts multiple occurrences of C<--category>. See also L</EXAMPLES>.


=head2 -F, --query-formats

Query available formats to the URL. The returned array is created
from the data returned by the server. You can use the
I<format strings> in this array with C<--format>.

The available formats are determined by the I<libquvi script>
responsible for parsing the media details.

See also C<--format>.

=head2 -f, --format I<arg> (=default)

Query media details for the format I<arg>. The I<arg> may also be
C<default> or C<best>. The I<arg> value is used with B<all> of the
URLs fed to quvi.

If the I<arg> is C<best>, the I<libquvi script> responsible for parsing
the media details will determine the C<best> format available to an URL.

If the I<arg> is C<default> the I<libquvi script> attempts to return an
URL to whatever it deemed to be the C<default> format for the URL.

The I<libquvi script> will return the C<default> format if the I<arg>
was unrecognized or the requested format was not available.

You can find more information about the YouTube specific "fmt" IDs at:
 <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YouTube#Quality_and_codecs>

See also C<--query-formats>.

=head2 --agent I<arg> (=Mozilla/5.0)

Identify quvi as I<arg> to the HTTP servers. Default is "Mozilla/5.0".

=head2 --proxy I<arg>

Use proxy for HTTP connections, e.g. "http://foo:1234". You can also
define B<http_proxy> environment setting to for the same effect.

=head2 --connect-timeout I<seconds>

Maximum seconds allowed connection to server take. Default is 30.

=head1 DEPRECATED

The following options have been marked as "deprecated" and will be
removed in the later versions of quvi.

=head2 --no-proxy

Disable use of HTTP proxy completely. Proxy will not be used even
if it is defined in B<http_proxy>. Use C<--feature> instead.

=head2 -r, --no-resolve

Do not resolve HTTP redirections. When used, quvi will not be able
to resolve most of the "shortened URLs" produced by different URL
shortening services.

Note that libquvi scripts that explicitly (need to) resolve
redirections will continue to do so even if this switch is used.
Use C<--feature> instead.

=head2 -n, --no-verify

Do not verify media stream URL after parsing. When used, some
media details, e.g. content length, will not become available.

Note that libquvi skips the verification automatically with all
non-HTTP media stream URLs. Use C<--feature> instead.

=head2 -q, --quiet

Turn off all output printed to stderr (excl. any errors).
If C<--verbose-libcurl> is specified, libcurl will continue
to print messages to stderr. The media details will still
be printed to stdout. Use C<--verbosity> instead.

=head2 --verbose-libcurl

Turn on libcurl verbose mode. Use C<--verbosity> instead.

=head2 --xml

Print the media details (and errors, if C<--export-level=+errors> is specified)
in XML. Use C<--export-format> instead.

=head2 --category-http

Enable category HTTP webscripts. This is the default category.
Use C<--category> instead.

=head2 --category-mms

Enable category MMS webscripts. Use C<--category> instead.

=head2 --category-rtsp

Enable category RTSP webscripts. Use C<--category> instead.

=head2 --category-rtmp

Enable category RTMP webscripts. Use C<--category> instead.

=head2 --category-all

Enable all categories of webscripts. Use C<--category> instead.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Always quote the URLs in the command line as seen below. Many URLs
contain parameters that may otherwise cause the shell to behave
with unexpected results.

=head2 quvi "URL"

Typical use.

=head2 quvi -d xml "URL"

Same but print the results in XML.

=head2 quvi -f best "URL"

Get for the best available format of the media. This assumes E<gt>1
formats are supported, otherwise will fallback to default format.

=head2 quvi -F "URL"

Query available formats to the URL. Use one of the returned format
strings from this list with C<--format>.

=head2 quvi --support

Print the supported websites. The domain strings are patterns.

=head2 quvi --support -c rtmp -c mms

Same but print only those from the RTMP and the MMS categories.

=head2 quvi --support "URL"

Check whether the URL is supported. This does not require an Internet
connection but will fail with most "shortened" URLs.

=head2 quvi -vm -e-r -e-v "URL" --exec "echo %t" --exec "vlc %u"

Mute message output (-vm), do not resolve HTTP redirections (-e-r) and
skip media stream URL verification (-e-v). Print media title using
echo(1), open media stream URL in vlc(1).

=head1 FILES

=head2 $HOME/.quvirc

Most of the command line options can also be defined in the
configuration file. For example:

 agent = foo/1.0            # --agent
 proxy = http://foo:1234    # --proxy

You can also use $QUVI_HOME instead of $HOME.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=head2 quvi

=head3 QUVI_HOME

Path to the directory with the configuration file. If set, quvi
command uses this instead of $HOME.

=head2 libquvi

=head3 LIBQUVI_SCRIPTSDIR

Path to the libquvi-scripts directory. Overrides the libquvi default
search paths for the scripts, e.g.:

 env LIBQUVI_SCRIPTSDIR=/dir/with/quvi/lua/scripts/ quvi

Make sure it points to a directory containing the lua/ directory with the
expected "util/*.lua" and "website/quvi/*.lua" scripts that are normally
installed with libquvi-scripts.

For a totorial that covers these steps, see the libquvi C API
documentation at:

  <http://quvi.sourceforge.net/doc/>

=head3 LIBQUVI_SHOW_SCANDIR

If set, libquvi prints the lua script search paths to the stderr.

=head3 LIBQUVI_SHOW_SCRIPT

If set, the lua scripts found by libquvi are printed to the stderr.

 env LIBQUVI_SHOW_SCRIPT=1 quvi

=head2 libcurl

=head3 http_proxy

http_proxy value is used if defined. Note, however, that C<--proxy> and
C<--feature -proxy> both override this behaviour.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

quvi exits with 0 on success and E<gt>0 if an error occurred.

 QUVI_OK               = 0x00
 QUVI_MEM              = 0x01, Memory allocation failed
                           (or invalid quvi command line option)
 QUVI_BADHANDLE        = 0x02, Bad session handle
 QUVI_INVARG           = 0x03, Invalid function (or command line) arg
 QUVI_CURLINIT         = 0x04, libcurl initialization failed
 QUVI_LAST             = 0x05, Indicates end of list iteration
 QUVI_ABORTEDBYCALLBACK= 0x06, Aborted by callback function
 QUVI_LUAINIT          = 0x07, Lua initialization failure
 QUVI_NOLUAWEBSITE     = 0x08, Failed to find lua webscripts
 QUVI_NOLUAUTIL        = 0x09, Failed to find the utility scripts
 --
 QUVI_NOSUPPORT        = 0x41, libquvi does not support the host
 QUVI_CALLBACK         = 0x42, network callback error occurred
 QUVI_ICONV            = 0x43, libiconv error occurred
 QUVI_LUA              = 0x44, lua error occurred

=head1 WWW

 Home  : http://quvi.sourceforge.net/
 gitweb: http://repo.or.cz/w/quvi-tool.git

=head1 LICENSE

quvi is free software, licensed under the LGPLv2.1+.

=head1 SEE ALSO

libquvi(3), libquvi-scripts(7)

=head1 AUTHOR

Toni Gundogdu E<lt>legatvs at sign gmail comE<gt>

Thanks to all those who have contributed to the project by sending patches,
reporting bugs and writing feedback. You know who you are.
